Gumby: so here's what i do...
Gumby: run it all the way to the back
Gumby: let it cool for just a bit
Gumby: then bring it back out 7
Gumby: let it heat for just a second then blow once
Gumby: bring it back out 1 more
Gumby: blow 4 times
Gumby: you might try 3 and then check it against the goal to see
Gumby: then run it to the back again and cool it while you center up the bulb
Gumby: rotate the entire time unless you and stopping to let the glass drop back toward the center
Jaby: OK, while rotating .. how frequently do you "rotate"?  
Gumby: constantly
Gumby: i do a,s,and q with the left hand
Gumby: b,n,m,u with the right
Gumby: about as fast as i can press the key
Jaby: Ahh .. ok. 
Gumby: i also check quality with the left hand
Gumby: i normally stand to the side with F7, zoom in so i'm looking in at an angle

Gumby: i'm not sure it really helps that much anyway
Jaby: Ya, that's what I find. I try to cool it after I make it so it won't droop so much, then no time for teh coil. 
Jaby: Ahh .. ok. I didn't know that. 
Gumby: a lot of the time you make a bulb it drops down since the glass is warm, then time expires and it's off center
Jaby: OK, so do you make the coil going in slowly?  or coming out clowly? 
Gumby: going in
Gumby: so i end up at the back with it cooled and run back up a bit for the bulb is there's time
Gumby: the 8.2ks that went into the UoArch didn't have a bulb
Jaby: Ahh .. ok.  So my current "recipe" is <dropx2>an<dropx2>ann repeated. 
Jaby: Oh, really?  Huh .. ok. 
Gumby: my highest was 850 with a bulb, 8463 without
Gumby: 8505*
Jaby: Ya, wne I try to make the bulb at the end, the whole thing inflates .. 
Gumby: you want my procedure or want to work out yours first?
Gumby: maybe your's will be better than mine, or maybe we can combine later to get better coils :)
Jaby: Hrm ... Well, I'd like yours, I think.  
Gumby: i use standard heating
Gumby: cause you know, back in the day that's all there was
Jaby: Oh!  OK.  I been using pinpoint... Haven't varied that yet. 
Jaby: Ahh!  Had to make them by candle light back then? 
Gumby: just the glow of the molten glass
Gumby: so a little about my procedure
Jaby: kk
Gumby: i press n after every tick
Gumby: so what i'm going to give is how far in the glass is and how many ticks it stay at that spot
Jaby: k

Gumby:
4	1	-	- 
5	2	-	- 
6	2	-	- 
7	2	-	- 
8	1	-	- 
9	2	-	- 
10	1	-	- 
11	2	-	- 
12	1	-	- 
13	2	-	- 
14	2	-	- 
15	2	-	- 
16	1	-	- 
17	2	-	- 
18	2	-	- 
19	2	-	- 
20	1	-	- 
21	2	-	- 
22	1	-	- 
23	1	-	- 
Gumby: after the last one i run it to the back as quick as i can and try to center up the best i can
Jaby: ya, I think I'm terrible at that part. I get all panicy.
Gumby: if it completely cools before the timer is up i run it back out 5 times and blow 4 times real fast
Gumby: then i get it to the back again and hope i have 1 or 2 ticks to try to center the end back up
Gumby: it's sweets when after the balancing part it has no wobble when holding down n :)
Jaby: :=) 
Gumby: you've probably also seen that after it's done, the peak values change as you keep rotating
Jaby: Ya, by lots. 
Gumby: so if it peaks at say 8198, good chance you can rotate a ton and see something over 8200
Gumby: if you are really really close to a specific quality
Gumby: there are also some server/client problems
Jaby: Ahh .. ok. 
Gumby: every now and then you'll get a coil where the Q is off until you relog
Gumby: it's just by a few points though
Jaby: OH .. how do you detect that? I dont' hink I understand. 
Gumby: you don't
Jaby: Ugh .. ok. 
Gumby: sometimes it tells you a different quality in the popup than what the display said
Gumby: normally you try to donate it somewhere and it doesn't work :p
Gumby: so you have to relog and then it'll take it
Jaby: Huh .. I see ... quite weird. 
Gumby: teppy told me once what caused it, and evidently it would be really hard to try to fix
Gumby: remember the fix he did a while back, something about beetles displaying wrong?
